< beach ambience, waves hitting the shore, wind, >
< distant voices speaking Polish >
VERONIQUE: There was always a “before” and “after.”
Not before and after migration – at least, not exactly.
Something else shaped these two worlds that my mother moved between.
< scarcely perceptible whispers >
I couldn’t follow her – but sometimes, when the door was ajar,
I could peer through.
< soft, contemplative piano and rhythmic tone >
From a young age, I was pulled towards the places
where reality shows its cracks, its seams.
At every opening, I strained my ears,
listening for snatches of the other side.
Sometimes, this sense of not fully being “here” was an electric charge,
an incantation, a miraculous melting away of selfhood.
Sometimes, it was a riptide,
which hooked my limbs and sent me spinning into the dark.
< piano and tone build >
I couldn’t follow her, so I went somewhere else.
Still, when I lifted the escape hatch, or slipped between the trees,
part of me searched for the sweep of her shadow,
the flicker of her footfalls, the whisper of her breath.
< beach ambience rises to the foreground >
< piano and tone fade >
< beach ambience gradually fades >